." Man page for runqstat

.TH runqstat 1 "08 Nov 2017" "0.1" "runqstat man page"

.SH NAME
runqstat \- monitor Linux CPU runq

.SH SYNOPSIS
runqstat [-d duration] [-i interval] [-c count] [-q] [-b] [-v] [-h]

.SH DESCRIPTION
runqstat is a tool to calculate the actual Linux runq over a time interval. This is similar to the load average on non-Linux Unix systems, which do not include blocked processes (usually IO).

runqstat samples /proc/stat to get the processing running - it does this very fast, once every interval, for the duration

Note column headings are only displayed if count > 1, which simplies parsing for tools that just need a single number.

The options are as follows:

     -d      Duration of the sampling run Default is 1 second.
     -i      Interval of the sample time. Default is 25 milliseconds.
     -c      Count of overall runs. Default is 1 run.
     -q      Get queue only, which will subtract the number of CPU cores. Default is off.
     -b      Include blocked count, from /proc/stats. Default is off.
     -v      Verbose, for debugging and more info. Default is off.
     -h      Help and usage.

.SH EXAMPLES

runqstat
          Display the runq after 1 second of averaging 10ms samples

runqstat -d 10 -i 100
         Display the runq after 10 seconds of averaging 100ms samples

runqstat -d 2 -c 10
         Display the runq 10 times, averaging 2 seconds each time

runqstat -c 10 -b -q
         Display the runq, queue only (subtract cpu count), and blocking, both 10 times

.SH SEE ALSO
vmstat(8), sar(1)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Mushero (steve.mushero@opsstack.io)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2017 OpsStack License GPLv2 - <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
